docs: refine documentation 0.7 (#643)
jina-ai/finetuner: docs/get-started/how-it-works.md

# {octicon}`question` How Does it Work?

From an algorithmic perspective,
Finetuner leverages the contrastive approach to improve your model for similarity matching.

> 

Reviewer: For a getting started page, this page seems a bit boring (not because of the changes but also before). It describes the process of Finetuning relatively detailed but too superficial that a user can understand how to use Finetuner from this. I would suggest to describe some parts like the construction of the training data a bit shorter and rather provide internal links to the respective sections.

## Step 1: Build embedding model

> Finetuner interprets the backbone model architecture,

Reviewer: I think for many users it is not clear what the term "backbone model architecture" means

# {octicon}`question` How Does it Work?

> Finetuner is a framework to improve models that encode data into embedding for similarity matching.
> From an algorithmic perspective, it leverages the contrastive learning approach.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Finetuner is a framework for using the contrastive learning approach to improve similarity matching with models that encode data into embeddings.
```

This involves three steps:

> ## Step 1: Build embedding model

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Step 1: Build an embedding model
```

> Finetuner interprets the architecture of an existing (pre-trained model) which we call backbone.
> Those model might not be an embedding model upfront and the architecture not suitable for training it to encode data into embeddings.
> Therefore, Finetuner removes the default *head*, applies *pooling* and freezes layers that do not need to be trained.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Finetuner takes an existing, pre-trained model, typically called the __backbone__, and analyzes its architecture. If this model does not already produce embeddings, Finetuner removes the default *head* (the upper layers of the network), applies *pooling*, and freezes any layers that do not need to be trained.
```

Reviewer: The model might produce embeddings before, but they might not be good, also freezing is optional. Therefore, I will stick to the old formulation

For instance, Finetuner will turn an image classification model, e.g., for separating cats from dogs, into an *embedding model* 
by removing its last layer - the classification head (cat-dog classifier).

> This embedding model does not make predictions or outputs a probability,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This embedding model does not make predictions or output a probability,
```

> but instead outputs a feature vector to represent your data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
but instead outputs a feature vector (an __embedding__) that represent its input.
```

and a `Document` with a different `finetuner_label` (negative).
The objective is to pull `Document`s which belong to the same class together,
while pushing the `Document`s which belong to a different class away from each other.
````
````{tab} Cross-modal (without label)
Finetuner works on unlabeled text image pairs.
You can fine-tune a CLIP like model for text to images search directly without any annotations.
It expects either a CSV file or a {class}`~docarray.array.document.DocumentArray` consisting a list of {class}`~docarray.array.document.Document` contains two chunks: an image chunk and a text chunk.

> During the fine-tuning, Finetuner leverages text-image pairs and jointly optimize two models (`CLIPTextEncoder` and `CLIPImageEncoder`) with respect to two classification losses: (1) given a text, find the best matching

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
During fine-tuning, Finetuner leverages text-image pairs and jointly optimizes two models (`CLIPTextEncoder` and `CLIPImageEncoder`) with respect to two classification losses: (1) given a text, find the best matching
```

> image and given an image to find the best match text. Then aggregate two losses into the `CLIPLoss`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
image and (2) given an image, find the best matching text. Then it aggregates the two losses into the `CLIPLoss`.
```

> At the end, the output embedding of your data from the `CLIPTextEncoder` is comparable against the `CLIPImageEncoder`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At the end, the output embedding of your data from the `CLIPTextEncoder` is comparable to `CLIPImageEncoder`.
```

````
````{tab} Uni-modal (without label, Coming Soon)
Finetuner works on unlabeled texts or images.

> While this feature is not opened to the user at the moment.

Reviewer 2: I don't know what feature is not open.

Author: unimodal fine-tuning without label, as written as the title of the `tab`

> It expects either a CSV file or a {class}`~docarray.array.document.DocumentArray`, labeles are not required.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It expects either a CSV file or a {class}`~docarray.array.document.DocumentArray`. Labels are not required.
```

> Finetuner employs self-supervised learning approach to apply random augmentation on your data and generate two/multiple Views of your data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Finetuner employs a self-supervised learning approach that applies random augmentation to your data and generates two/multiple Views of your data.
```

> These Views can be considered as positives to each other.

Reviewer 2: I don't understand this.

Reviewer: same here

> It should be noted that self-supervised approach needs huge amount of training data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It should be noted that self-supervised approach needs a very large amount of training data.
```

> We will postpone rolling this feature out until we prove it's effectiveness.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We have postponed rolling this feature out until we have proven its effectiveness.
```

and a `Document` with a different `finetuner_label` (negative).
The objective is to pull `Document`s which belong to the same class together,
while pushing the `Document`s which belong to a different class away from each other.
````
````{tab} Cross-modal (without label)

> Finetuner works on unlabeled text image pairs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Finetuner works on unlabeled text/image pairs.
```

> You can fine-tune a CLIP like model for text to images search directly without any annotations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can fine-tune a CLIP-like model for text to images search directly without any annotations.
```

It expects either a CSV file or a {class}`~docarray.array.document.DocumentArray` consisting a list of {class}`~docarray.array.document.Document` that contain two chunks: an image chunk and a text chunk.

During fine-tuning, Finetuner leverages text-image pairs and jointly optimizes two models (`CLIPTextEncoder` and `CLIPImageEncoder`) with respect to two classification losses: (1) given a text, find the best matching
image and (2) given an image, find the best matching text. Then it aggregates the two losses into the `CLIPLoss`.
At the end, the output embedding of your data from the `CLIPTextEncoder` is comparable to `CLIPImageEncoder`.
````

## Step 3: Tuning in the cloud

> From an engineering perspective,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
From an operational perspective,
```

we have hidden all the complexity of machine learning algorithms and resource configuration (such as GPUs).
All you need to do is decide on your backbone model and prepare your training data.

Once you have logged in to the Jina Ecosystem with {meth}`~finetuner.login()`,
Finetuner will push your training data into the *Jina AI Cloud* (only visible to you).
At the same time, we will spin-up an isolated computational resource
with proper memory, CPU, GPU dedicated to your fine-tuning job.

> Once fine-tuning is done, Finetuner will again push your fine-tuned model to the *Jina AI Cloud*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once fine-tuning is done, Finetuner will push your fine-tuned model to the *Jina AI Cloud*
```

> and make it available for you to pull it back to your machine.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and make it available for you to download.
```
